## Discussion

It gets a 5.5.

- the thing that I am missing is that its just a sketch. You make it very hard for the reader to understand.
- Explain what you mean.

- If you think you're repeating yourself, than the text is not good

Special issue April/May.

- generalize figure 1.

## Introduction

- line 8 several inefficiencies needs a reference.
- "release cycles"
- successful technologies

- line 12 clonal tetraploid
- line 16
- line 18 population structure
- 21 remove marginal
- line 26 IMPACT
- "careful trial selection" trial choice or envirotypes
- line 36 reserved to, for, in
- line 40 candidates
- single plant hills. Precision of evaluation. Flesh this out.

- spats versus ar1
line 57 its generally
- expressing GCA SCA line 79
- potato as a crop
large trait surface
- non-independent interdependence.
- line 98
- apparent for the IBD markersets ()
- Use a new sentence.

QTL not QTLs

- evidently what 126
- paragraph too complex to read
line 128 "other genetic effects"
- "shared pedigree history or shared ancestry"
- line 142 simplify this sentence
- Seize this opportunity to talk about this heterosis
Hill Peter Visser 2008 additive model heritability in the genomics era

## pooling methods

pool structure

- Got a compliment

- big bets bill and melinda gates hybrid wheat

- Increased your selection response
- line 198 flesh it out
Line 199

- line 224
- line 226 
Having said this line 244
- algorithmic methods
line 292 no seed

# Fred second draft 22/10/2025

- line 41 rewording the necissity of hybrid breeding
- In general, this paragraph needs to be reworded
- line 54 several interactive effects. These are interactions
- line 60 capital S splines
line 60 - 62, no model selection procedure. Reword this so it is clear
- tuber variates -> tuber based trait
- line 75, "Despite this...."
- line 80 -85 you can do work to make this clearer. What do you mean here
- Think of tetraploid breeders equation ^^^ from kempthorne
- line 103 reword gca sca model comparison
line 105 genetic residual, this came from chapter 3
- line 109 genetic what?
- line 115 superior to
line 130 PC what is this?
- line 133 background genetic variation

there is also (should be there are also)

- statistical and genetic parameters
- Potential proposition regarding additive vs epistasis


- suppose we can identify a sample of candidates in
- Sum of random variables and impact on the variances

- line 215 - 217 don't be so rosy

- In chapter 4 remove that apostrophe

- 255 permissible results

3.2 neglected

reverse and forward genetics. avoid it

- volume
